The Photo Mapp app by JD

This app allows users to search for pictures using the Flickr API, results are display on a Google Map.

When users define a search term, results are automatically generated 1 second after typing ceases. The camera zooms out fully to allow users to easily see where the results are on the map.

Users can define how many results they want returned from 1-100.

With 'Location Mode' enabled the search term that is entered will query the Flickr API for a place matching that term. Using that place's coordinates, another call to the Flickr API is made to return pictures from the surrounding area of that location, the camera also automatically pans to that location on the map.

If the search term is left blank, the user's current location will be used in the query, and the camera with pan to that location instead. When launching the app for the first time, it may take a few minutes for the location service to activate properly. If you testing the app using an emulator don't forget to send a test coordinate in the emulator options.

This app uses Google's ClusterRenderer class in order to group pictures which are close together geographically (and hence overlapping in the map UI) into cluster groups. This presents a clearer and less cluttered UI, but had the issue of permanently clustering photos of the exact same coordinates together, making them unable to be viewed.

For this reason I decided to implement a viewer activity that would allow users to view and swipe through all the photos inside clusters.

I did plan to introduce MapBox into the project in order to further stylise the app, but unfortunately MapBox does not currently support clustering on Android (Although it is on the way apparently).


--Criticisms--

My main criticisms of my project are my UI, which doesn't particularly conform to Materials Design standards. I do pay attention to Materials conventions normally but I wanted to showcase my ability to use and implement custom UI components and widgets.

Also, I felt the UX of the auto search feature, and the accompanying panning and zooming to be a little clunky, given more time to iterate I would have liked to have tried different solutions to this.


Thanks for giving me the opportunity to create something for you, please have a poke around, I'll look forward to hearing any criticisms you have.

Cheers!
JD



